---
title: What is S3?
path: "/knowledge/aws/s3"
excerpt: Learn about AWS Simple Storage Service (S3).
---

## AWS S3 Cheat Sheet

> [Content Credits](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ia-UEYYR44s&t=3519s)

> [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)

* **Simple Storage Service (S3)** is object-based storage. Store **unlimited** amount of data without worrying about underlying storage infrastructure.

* S3 replicates data across at least **3 AZs** to ensure **99.99% Availability** and **11'9s Durability**.

* Objects contain your data (like files).

* Objects can be sized from **0 bytes** up to **5 Terabytes (TB)**

* Buckets contain objects. Buckets can also contain folders which can contain objects.

* Bucket names are **unique** across all AWS accounts. Like a domain name.

* When you upload a file to S3 successfully, you will receive a HTTP 200 code.

* **Lifecycle Management**: Objects can be moved between storage classes or objects can be deleted automatically based on a schedule.

* **Versioning**: Objects are given a **Version ID**. When new objects are uploaded, the old objects are kept. You can access any object version. When you delete an object the previous object is restored. Once Versioning is turned on it **CANNOT** be turned off, only suspended.

* **MFA Delete**: enforces DELETE operations to require MFA token in order to delete the object. Must have versioning turned on to use this. Can only turn on MFA Delete from the AWS CLI. Root Account is allowed to delete objects.

* All new buckets are **private by default**.

* Logging can be turned on to log & track operations performed on objects.

* **Access control**: is configured using **Bucket Policies** and **Access Control Lists (ACLs)**.

* **Bucket policies** are JSON statements which let you write complex control access.

* **ACLs** are the legacy method (not deprecated) where you grant access to objects and buckets with simple actions.
